When talking about interoperability, REST web services is what comes to our mind.
REST stands for representational state transfer.
It is an architectural style based on how the web works.
Applied to services, REST tries to put the web back into web services.
To design RESTful web services, you need to know HTTP,
how it works under the hood and how to make the most of it.
Once this is done,
you understand why RESTful architecture quickly became popular,
because they rely on these very robust transport protocol,
which is HTTP.
Because we want our REST service to be consumed by an Angular application,
we will expose our books in a JSON format.
JSON, or JavaScript Object Notation,
originated with JavaScript for representing simple data structure.
To be precise,
the JSON format is often used by serializing and transmitted
structured data over a network connection.
It rapidly became so popular that today recent web browsers
have native JSON encoding decoding support.
REST and JSON,
that's what our Java EE backend and Angular frontend will need to communicate.
But REST is just a style of architecture with design principles,
which heavily relies on HTTP.
So basically to write RESTful web services in Java we only need an HTTP server,
but this is at the cost of pain to pass HTTP requests and responses of course.
This is where JAX-RS comes to the rescue.
With just a few annotations, we get the full power of HTTP.
Let's recall the web browsing experience of our Angular application.
With a browser we point at a URI, such as www.
bookstore.
com, giving us the book list representation in JSON.
We can achieve this because HTTP has a uniform interface,
such as get, post, and delete.
If the URI is wrong or if something wrong happens,
the web service will send an HTTP status code.
In the REST architectural style,
every piece of information is a resource and these resources are
addressed using uniform resource identifier,
or URIs.
A resource is any piece of information that might be worthwhile referring with
a unique Id made of a server name and a structured address,
such as www.
bookstore.
com/books.
Now that we have a URI pointing at a resource, we want its representation.
This could be text, XML, PDF document, jpeg image or JSON in our case.
Once we know where the resource is and its representation,
we interact with it using a uniform interface.
This is where we can invoke the HTTP method POST, GET, PUT, DELETE.
All these HTTP low level concepts are simplified with JAX-RS API. Let's have a look at some code.